## About Updates

English | [简体中文](UPGRADE.md)

### Version 3.3.4.x
This version is joined by a new update tool (upgrader-3.3.4.x.jar, in the same directory with other binary packages). It needs to be run before and after restarting the process of Job binary Jar file update (all microservice processes), which is twice in total for the tool, in order to transfer permission data and encrypted account data.

**Compatibility**  
It is used for updates from 3.x.x.x to 3.3.4.x or higher. It doesn't need to be executed when updating within the 3.3.4.x version (e.g. 3.3.4.0-->3.3.4.3)

**Using the Tool**   
Launch the tool with the command: `java -Dfile.encoding=utf8 -Djob.log.dir=path/to/log/dir -Dconfig.file=/path/to/config/file -jar upgrader-[x.x.x.x].jar [fromVersion] [toVersion] [executeTime]` Next, enter the specific parameters of the version update task based on the command line prompts, then run the update tool.  

/path/to/log/dir The log saving path for specified tools, mostly ${BK_HOME}/logs/job  
/path/to/config/file The configuration file loaded by specific tools. The configuration file is automatically generated by the setup script. Its path is: ${BK_HOME}/etc/job/upgrader/upgrader.properties
fromVersion is the current platform version, e.g. 3.2.7.3  
toVersion is target platform version, e.g. 3.3.4.0  
executeTime is the execution time of the update task, its has BEFORE_UPDATE_JOB and AFTER_UPDATE_JOB values. If you're running this tool before the platform update, enter BEFORE_UPDATE_JOB. If its after the update, enter AFTER_UPDATE_JOB  

Example:  
Before Job process update:    
```shell script
/opt/java/bin/java -Dfile.encoding=utf8 -Djob.log.dir=/data/bkee/logs/job -Dconfig.file=/data/bkee/etc/job/upgrader/upgrader.properties -jar upgrader-3.3.4.0.jar 3.2.7.3 3.3.4.0 BEFORE_UPDATE_JOB  
```
After Job process update:  
```shell script
/opt/java/bin/java -Dfile.encoding=utf8 -Djob.log.dir=/data/bkee/logs/job -Dconfig.file=/data/bkee/etc/job/upgrader/upgrader.properties -jar upgrader-3.3.4.0.jar 3.2.7.3 3.3.4.0 AFTER_UPDATE_JOB
```
